The positions of introns are generally inferred from aligning spliced RNA to the genome using split-read mapping.  Determining the positions of introns in this manner requires that spliced RNA-Seq reads, when mapped to the genome, can be assigned uniquely. Here, I show that for the majority of annotated human splice sites (88.67%), this assumption does not hold. Even after accounting for the ambiguity of the AGgt and agGT splice signals at exon boundaries, 79.74% of introns are still ambiguously defined, such that the same junction sequence would also be observed in the mature RNA by extending the sequence attributed to the donor and shortening the acceptor sequence, or vice versa. This implies that without appealing to annotations or assumptions about intronic sequence structure, it is not possible to discover the genomic positions of splicing for at least 1 intron in 33,035 of 35,259 human genes using mRNA sequence alone. Similar rates are observed in the mouse transcriptome. 

Sequence analysis shows the possibility that degenerate motifs at intronic sequence boundaries may be less prevalent for circular splicing than linear splicing. Alternatively, this difference may reflect limitations of current circular splicing algorithms.

See binary files attached to the latest release for analysis of human and mouse transcriptomes, as well as human annotated circular RNA and simulated transcriptomes. These output files include equivalence junction sequences for each annotated junction, the frequency of each equivalence junction sequence in the transcriptome, and a brief writeup detailing the analysis performed and summarizing findings. See METHODS file for commands run to generate these results. 
